Stendhal/Panel/README.md, before:

#How to use?
![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/Previews/pixeldots.gif)

You will need [bar-aint-recursive](https://github.com/LemonBoy/bar) (for the panel) and [dzen](https://github.com/robm/dzen) (for the popups).

Put those files in your $PATH. Sometimes, it might need a script I put in `~/.bin`, so look for it in the appropriate [place](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/dotfiles/tree/master/.bin).

The developper was lazy and haven't implemented a way to increase the number of clickable areas without recompiling. In the source code, there is a `define N 10` somewhere, **increase** that value (to 20 for example).


##Panel
- To start everything, just launch `panel`, it will create the panel fifo and start bar.
- `panel-skeleton` interprets where to put each information that is piped to the fifo.
- `panel-settings` contains various settings, like the colors. It is loaded by the other scripts.

All the special characters (icons...) are custom made. You will need the *MonteCarloPanel* and *MonteCarloMedium* fonts from my Monégasque repo, or add the characters yourself to your font of choice.

If you want to use your own font with your own glyphs, just know that I had some issues with vertical alignment. I fixed it by duplicating my font and changing some of its properties (namely *SIZE*, *PIXEL_SIZE* and *FONT_DESCENT*) to align it properly. That's why I have both a *MonteCarloMedium* font and a *MonteCarloPanel* font, the later being dedicated to the panel.

##Notifications
![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/Previews/notstat.gif)

The music notification on the left of the panel is generated by *not-stat*, a shell script inspired by [statnot](https://github.com/halhen/statnot).

It will display a notification in the panel and show the music again if there is no new notifications during three seconds.

You call it like this:

    pkill not-stat ; not-stat -<x>

**Do not forget** to kill the *not-stat* process before calling it, else the three seconds wait will not work properly.


###With mpdcron
On each song change or mpd event (like play/pause), [mpdcron](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1354247) will execute the following:

    pkill not-stat ; not-stat -m &


###With sxhkd
It's also bound to keybinds, for example:

    XF86AudioRaiseVolume
     amixer set PCM 1dB+ ; pkill not-stat ; not-stat -v

With those lines in your sxhkdrc, pressing the *XF86AudioRaiseVolume* will raise the PCM channel volume by 1 decibel, display the new volume value and show the music status again after three seconds of inactivity.

Read my `sxhkdrc` if you want other examples.

###With buttons
The script is also called when clicking on various buttons or when using the different sliders.

###Misc.
The notification is clickable: click on the blue icon to spawn the pink buttons, and click on the label to toggle play/pause in mpd.


##Clickable panel buttons
The pink buttons menu is generated by `panel-monitor`, and the stand-alone music controller is made by `panel-music_control`.

Click on it to know what each button does, it's not really complicated.

You might want to change `mpc-script prev` by `mpc prev` (or just grab the currently unfinished `mpc-script` from my `~/.bin`).


##Dzen popup
`dzen-submenu-window`creates the window and the fifo used by the sliders.

`dzen-submenu-content` creates the actual content of the popup, like the sliders.

**Do not forget** to create `~/.panel/PID/dzen-submenu.pid`, else a few things will not work (like closing it properly or moving the indicator through other means than clicking on the slider).

####Sound
Should work out of the box. I just use the CLI tools that come with ALSA to get and change the volume of the Master and PCM channels.

####Brightness
To draw the slider, it reads the current screen brightness value in `/sys/<...>/backlight/<...>/brightness` and its max value in `/sys/<...>/backlight/<...>/max_brightness`.

The path to those files probably won't be the same on our respective systems, so edit this in the `panel-settings`.

The same for the script I use to change the backlight, you will need to adapt it to your system, so it changes the value of the right file.

####Music
It provides shortcuts to launch [mpdviz](https://github.com/neeee/mpdviz), *ncmpcpp* and my [coverart](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/dotfiles/blob/master/.bin/coverart) script.

The coverart script is not that good, but heh. Now that dunst is starting to support images I might stop using it anyway and write something else.

##Start Menu
The start menu was made with `mygtkmenu` configured to spawn at specific coordinates (and not just where the pointer is located).

If Baskerville decides to re-implement the "click on root window" event in sxhkd, then `mygtkmenu` could also be used exactly as the OpenBox or Awesome right-click menu, which would be very nice.
It seems he removed it because it conflicted with "focus follows pointer". I guess it would be the same with other keybind daemons.

Maybe it's possible to do it another way, like putting a transparent window underneath all the others, and code it so that clicking on it launch mygtkmenu. I don't really know.

Or perhaps it's already possible and widespread and I'm just uninformed.

##Mails
`panel-mail` is called by cron after it fetches mails:

    0 * * * * /usr/bin/getmail --rcfile mailbox1 --rcfile mailbox2 ; /home/tatou/.bin/panel-mail

You should also make an alias so it's called when you close mutt:

    alias mutt='mutt ; panel-mail'

In the panel, you can click on the icon to hide the number of unread mails.

##Calendar
Found it on Twily's [website](http://www.twily.info), tweaked it a little.

If you click on the date in the panel, the calendar will pop. If you click again on the date, it will disappear.

##To-watch list
![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/Previews/torrents.gif)
- `panel-torrents` displays the number of unwatched items in the panel. Clicking on that number spawns the popup, clicking again closes it.
- `dzen-to-watch` creates the popup. Right clicking closes the popup.
- `dzen-to-watch-content` creates the content of the popup from a text file acting as a list.
- [This](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/dotfiles/blob/master/.bin/notify-torrent-done) script (called by transmission-daemon when a torrent is finished), will add the filename at the end of the text file.


I use rssdler to automatically download torrents from rss feeds and to send me a notification when a new .torrent file will be downloaded.
I know rssdler can be run as a daemon, but I use `cron` and `rssdler -r` instead.

In the popup, clicking on the [X] will delete the associated line from the text file and make the new (shortened) list be displayed instead.

Clicking on a file name will send it to `xdg-open`, so it should work with any file type. I chose to use xdg-open only out of lazyness, but it would be nice to have more control, especially for things like compressed files (personnally I want to use mcomix if it's a comic, but if it's not then opening it in a file manager would be a better solution).

The script assumes the file is inside your Torrents folder, if it's anywhere else it won't work.

For some reason, I cannot make it so that arrow keys can be used to navigate the list. If someone have a solution, I'm interested.

######To do
- Use something else than xdg-open.
- Make it work if the file is elsewhere than in the Torrents folder.
- Navigating with arrow keys.
- Clean the files.

Commit message:

Temporarily using my own fork of BAR

Stendhal/Panel/README.md, after:

#How to use?
![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/Previews/pixeldots.gif)

You will need [bar-aint-recursive](https://github.com/LemonBoy/bar) (for the panel) and [dzen](https://github.com/robm/dzen) (for the popups).

LemonBoy recently (june, 12th 2014) added support for other buttons than the left click. The way he did it was frustrating, so [I did it another way](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/bar) (read the commit [message](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/bar/commit/81861bcddcdb8ed30165d1913d2093fba6120b80)). The way I did it is bad, but less useless. I will use my fork until he does it properly.

To have the same panel as me, put the files in your $PATH. Sometimes, it might need a script I put in `~/.bin`, so look for it in the appropriate [place](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/dotfiles/tree/master/.bin).

The developper was lazy and haven't implemented a way to increase the maximum number of clickable areas without recompiling. In the source code, there is a `#define N 20` somewhere, **increase** that value if you need more.


##Panel
- To start everything, just launch `panel`, it will create the panel fifo and start bar.
- `panel-skeleton` interprets where to put each information that is piped to the fifo.
- `panel-settings` contains various settings, like the colors. It is loaded by the other scripts.

All the special characters (icons...) are custom made. You will need the *MonteCarloPanel* and *MonteCarloMedium* fonts from my Monégasque repo, or add the characters yourself to your font of choice.

If you want to use your own font with your own glyphs, just know that I had some issues with vertical alignment. I fixed it by duplicating my font and changing some of its properties (namely *SIZE*, *PIXEL_SIZE* and *FONT_DESCENT*) to align it properly. That's why I have both a *MonteCarloMedium* font and a *MonteCarloPanel* font, the later being dedicated to the panel.

##Notifications
![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/Previews/notstat.gif)

The music notification on the left of the panel is generated by *not-stat*, a shell script inspired by [statnot](https://github.com/halhen/statnot).

It will display a notification in the panel and show the music again if there is no new notifications during three seconds.

You call it like this:

    pkill not-stat ; not-stat -<x>

**Do not forget** to kill the *not-stat* process before calling it, else the three seconds wait will not work properly.


###With mpdcron
On each song change or mpd event (like play/pause), [mpdcron](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1354247) will execute the following:

    pkill not-stat ; not-stat -m &


###With sxhkd
It's also bound to keybinds, for example:

    XF86AudioRaiseVolume
     amixer set PCM 1dB+ ; pkill not-stat ; not-stat -v

With those lines in your sxhkdrc, pressing the *XF86AudioRaiseVolume* will raise the PCM channel volume by 1 decibel, display the new volume value and show the music status again after three seconds of inactivity.

Read my `sxhkdrc` if you want other examples.

###With buttons
The script is also called when clicking on various buttons or when using the different sliders.

###Misc.
The notification is clickable: click on the blue icon to spawn the pink buttons, and click on the label to toggle play/pause in mpd.


##Clickable panel buttons
The pink buttons menu is generated by `panel-monitor`, and the stand-alone music controller is made by `panel-music_control`.

Click on it to know what each button does, it's not really complicated.

You might want to change `mpc-script prev` by `mpc prev` (or just grab the currently unfinished `mpc-script` from my `~/.bin`).


##Dzen popup
`dzen-submenu-window`creates the window and the fifo used by the sliders.

`dzen-submenu-content` creates the actual content of the popup, like the sliders.

**Do not forget** to create `~/.panel/PID/dzen-submenu.pid`, else a few things will not work (like closing it properly or moving the indicator through other means than clicking on the slider).

####Sound
Should work out of the box. I just use the CLI tools that come with ALSA to get and change the volume of the Master and PCM channels.

####Brightness
To draw the slider, it reads the current screen brightness value in `/sys/<...>/backlight/<...>/brightness` and its max value in `/sys/<...>/backlight/<...>/max_brightness`.

The path to those files probably won't be the same on our respective systems, so edit this in the `panel-settings`.

The same for the script I use to change the backlight, you will need to adapt it to your system, so it changes the value of the right file.

####Music
It provides shortcuts to launch [mpdviz](https://github.com/neeee/mpdviz), *ncmpcpp* and my [coverart](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/dotfiles/blob/master/.bin/coverart) script.

The coverart script is not that good, but heh. Now that dunst is starting to support images I might stop using it anyway and write something else.

##Start Menu
The start menu was made with `mygtkmenu` configured to spawn at specific coordinates (and not just where the pointer is located).

If Baskerville decides to re-implement the "click on root window" event in sxhkd, then `mygtkmenu` could also be used exactly as the OpenBox or Awesome right-click menu, which would be very nice.
It seems he removed it because it conflicted with "focus follows pointer". I guess it would be the same with other keybind daemons.

Maybe it's possible to do it another way, like putting a transparent window underneath all the others, and code it so that clicking on it launch mygtkmenu. I don't really know.

Or perhaps it's already possible and widespread and I'm just uninformed.

##Mails
`panel-mail` is called by cron after it fetches mails:

    0 * * * * /usr/bin/getmail --rcfile mailbox1 --rcfile mailbox2 ; /home/tatou/.bin/panel-mail

You should also make an alias so it's called when you close mutt:

    alias mutt='mutt ; panel-mail'

In the panel, you can click on the icon to hide the number of unread mails.

##Calendar
Found it on Twily's [website](http://www.twily.info), tweaked it a little.

If you click on the date in the panel, the calendar will pop. If you click again on the date, it will disappear.

##To-watch list
![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/Previews/torrents.gif)
- `panel-torrents` displays the number of unwatched items in the panel. Clicking on that number spawns the popup, clicking again closes it.
- `dzen-to-watch` creates the popup. Right clicking closes the popup.
- `dzen-to-watch-content` creates the content of the popup from a text file acting as a list.
- [This](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/dotfiles/blob/master/.bin/notify-torrent-done) script (called by transmission-daemon when a torrent is finished), will add the filename at the end of the text file.


I use rssdler to automatically download torrents from rss feeds and to send me a notification when a new .torrent file will be downloaded.
I know rssdler can be run as a daemon, but I use `cron` and `rssdler -r` instead.

In the popup, clicking on the [X] will delete the associated line from the text file and make the new (shortened) list be displayed instead.

Clicking on a file name will send it to `xdg-open`, so it should work with any file type. I chose to use xdg-open only out of lazyness, but it would be nice to have more control, especially for things like compressed files (personnally I want to use mcomix if it's a comic, but if it's not then opening it in a file manager would be a better solution).

The script assumes the file is inside your Torrents folder, if it's anywhere else it won't work.

For some reason, I cannot make it so that arrow keys can be used to navigate the list. If someone have a solution, I'm interested.

######To do
- Use something else than xdg-open.
- Make it work if the file is elsewhere than in the Torrents folder.
- Navigating with arrow keys.
- Clean the files.
