Stendhal/README.md, before:

#Stendhal

![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/Stendhal.png)

I use [bspwm](https://github.com/baskerville/bspwm), with lemonboy's [bar](https://github.com/LemonBoy/bar) (master branch).

Firefox+Vimperator, music player is ncmpcpp, terminal is termite, shell is zsh with a syntax highlighting plugin and the file manager is Thunar.

##Config files

###To put in your $PATH
*bspwmrc* goes into `~/.config/bspwm`

*bspwmpanel* and *bspwmpanel-bar* generate the content of the panel.

*mailbox_to_fifo* is used to display the number of unread mails.

*not-stat* makes the music notification. It also does a lot of other things, read the dedicated section.

All the colors used by the above scripts are defined in *bar_colors*.


###Misc.
I've also included the termite config file. The firefox userchrome is there too, but not the 4chan css.

For reference purpose, I added the `config.h` I used for the previous version of bar-aint-recursive (it needed recompiling to change the settings).

##Mails
On my system, cron fetches mails every hours. I configured it to call `mailbox_to_fifo` after that.

    0 * * * * /usr/bin/getmail --rcfile mailbox1 --rcfile mailbox2 ; /home/tatou/.bin/mailbox_to_fifo

I also made an alias in .zshrc so that when closing mutt it refreshes the number of unread mails.

    alias mutt='mutt ; mailbox_to_fifo'

##Notifications

![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/notstat.gif)

The music notification on the left of the panel is generated by *not-stat*, a shitty shell script I wrote (with [statnot](https://github.com/halhen/statnot) as my source of inspiration) and use as a general purpose notification system, read the content of the file for more details. [Mpdcron](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1354247) calls `not-stat -m` each time the song changes.

I also configured sxhkd to call it after pressing various keybinds. Here's an example:

    XF86AudioRaiseVolume
     amixer set PCM 1dB+ ; not-stat -v

With those settings, pressing the XF86AudioRaiseVolume button will increase the PCM channel volume by 1 dB and then output the new volume value in place of the current song.
If no not-stat related keybinds are pressed during more than 3 seconds, it gets back to displaying the current song.

Why something so complicated and not a simple while loop? Battery life is improved when I don't call acpi or mpc every couple of seconds.

##Font
In the panel, I'm using a modified MonteCarlo font with manually added icon glyphs. You can find it in my [Monégasque](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/Monegasque) repo.

The gtk font is Lucida Grande, the terminal font is Menlo.


/!\ That's not true anymore, the new flavor of bar-aint-recursive is a retard when it comes to vertical alignment: MonteCarlo (and all of its icons) where displayed one pixel too low (which is a lot for a 18px panel).
No idea how to fix that properly, I made a copy of the MonteCarlo font and I edited the .bdf file in vim to change the FONT_DESCENT property in order to move it by one pixel in the other direction. Kek.

##Misc
I use dmenu2 and center it in the screen like this:

    dmenu_run -i -x 415 -y 330 -w 450 -h 20 -l 4 -fn 'Lucida Grande-8' -nb '#201F1D' -nf '#eddec9' -sb '#8F3724' -sf '#eddec9'

I use compton to draw very subtle shadows and to fade windows when opening/closing them or when switching between tags.

Gtk theme is tweaked from flatstudio.

Commit message:

No scrollbars and bspwmrc colors

Stendhal/README.md, after:

#Stendhal

![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/Stendhal.png)

I use [bspwm](https://github.com/baskerville/bspwm), with lemonboy's [bar](https://github.com/LemonBoy/bar) (master branch).

Firefox+Pentadactyl, music player is ncmpcpp, terminal is termite, shell is zsh with a syntax highlighting plugin and the file manager is Thunar.

##Config files

###To put in your $PATH
*bspwmrc* goes into `~/.config/bspwm`

*bspwmpanel* and *bspwmpanel-bar* generate the content of the panel.

*mailbox_to_fifo* is used to display the number of unread mails.

*not-stat* makes the music notification. It also does a lot of other things, read the dedicated section.

All the colors used by the above scripts are defined in *bar_colors*.


###Misc.
I've also included the termite config file. The firefox userchrome is there too, but not the 4chan css.

For reference purpose, I added the `config.h` I used for the previous version of bar-aint-recursive (it needed recompiling to change the settings).

Pentadactyl can hide the scrollbars (both horizontal and vertical).

##Mails
On my system, cron fetches mails every hours. I configured it to call `mailbox_to_fifo` after that.

    0 * * * * /usr/bin/getmail --rcfile mailbox1 --rcfile mailbox2 ; /home/tatou/.bin/mailbox_to_fifo

I also made an alias in .zshrc so that when closing mutt it refreshes the number of unread mails.

    alias mutt='mutt ; mailbox_to_fifo'

##Notifications

![Screenshot](https://raw.github.com/tatou-tatou/Themes/master/Stendhal/notstat.gif)

The music notification on the left of the panel is generated by *not-stat*, a shitty shell script I wrote (with [statnot](https://github.com/halhen/statnot) as my source of inspiration) and use as a general purpose notification system, read the content of the file for more details. [Mpdcron](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=1354247) calls `not-stat -m` each time the song changes.

I also configured sxhkd to call it after pressing various keybinds. Here's an example:

    XF86AudioRaiseVolume
     amixer set PCM 1dB+ ; not-stat -v

With those settings, pressing the XF86AudioRaiseVolume button will increase the PCM channel volume by 1 dB and then output the new volume value in place of the current song.
If no not-stat related keybinds are pressed during more than 3 seconds, it gets back to displaying the current song.

Why something so complicated and not a simple while loop? Battery life is improved when I don't call acpi or mpc every couple of seconds.

##Font
In the panel, I'm using a modified MonteCarlo font with manually added icon glyphs. You can find it in my [Monégasque](https://github.com/tatou-tatou/Monegasque) repo.

The gtk font is Lucida Grande, the terminal font is Menlo.


/!\ That's not true anymore, the new flavor of bar-aint-recursive is a retard when it comes to vertical alignment: MonteCarlo (and all of its icons) where displayed one pixel too low (which is a lot for a 18px panel).
No idea how to fix that properly, I made a copy of the MonteCarlo font and I edited the .bdf file in vim to change the FONT_DESCENT property in order to move it by one pixel in the other direction. Kek.

##Misc
I use dmenu2 and center it in the screen like this:

    dmenu_run -i -x 415 -y 330 -w 450 -h 20 -l 4 -fn 'Lucida Grande-8' -nb '#201F1D' -nf '#eddec9' -sb '#8F3724' -sf '#eddec9'

I use compton to draw very subtle shadows and to fade windows when opening/closing them or when switching between tags.

Gtk theme is tweaked from flatstudio.
